---
layout: post
title: New Blog Yet Again 
description: New Blog Setup

---
So, I've just finished up setting up this brand new blog. Before I've always run a WordPress blog, but since WordPress is kind of over-kill with all it features that I don't need, I've decided to try something new, so this time I am running a static blog with [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/).

>Jekyll is a simple, blog aware, static site generator. It takes a template directory (representing the raw form of a website), runs it through Textile or Markdown and Liquid converters, and spits out a complete, static website suitable for serving with Apache or your favorite web server. This is also the engine behind GitHub Pages, which you can use to host your project’s page or blog right here from GitHub.

So after I started using jekyll, I don't need any database server, because everything is stored in static files. It also means I can use whatever editor I want to use (nano or vim) to write my blog posts in markdown.

So if I want to publish a new post, I simply do:

{% highlight sh %}
rake post title="Super awesome post"
{% endhighlight %} 

That will generate a new markdown file, which I then just edit with my desired editor and then do:

{% highlight sh %}
git add .
git commit -m "Added new content"
git push origin master
{% endhighlight %} 

`Note:   
The actual git server is github but this is optional you can use any git server you like or use RSYNC or FTP or even SCP the options are virtually limitless.` [My Blog Repo](https://github.com/setkeh/miniature-nemesis)

With a Cronjob to automagicly pull the repo from github every 5 minutes (the time limit is purely optional i set 5 minutes for testing purposes)

{% highlight sh %}
*/5 * * * * cd /srv/www/setkeh/ && git pull
{% endhighlight %} 

And that will push my new post over to my server and it will be live on the internet.

I love this solution, it's so simple and it super lightweight, since all the web server will need do is just serving some static files, and not generating dynamic content in some scripting language and fetching content from a database server, like it would do if I used something like WordPress.

If you want make your own blog like this, make sure to checkout [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/) and [Jekyll-Bootstap](http://jekyllbootstrap.com/) as well as my examples [setkeh-blog](https://github.com/setkeh/miniature-nemesis).

Some Really big changes coming soon now that everything seems to be working so please take the chance to check back soon :)
